- [Instructor] Now let's take a look
at the asynchronous processing that happens
in the Spring MVC framework.
But before that, we have to understand
the conventional HTTP request processing
that happens in a web application.
Let's say this is your servlet container
which is third on get server in our case,
and that is the web application that you deploy on it.
Now this web application could have many components.
One of them could be controllers
who's going to tap the HTTP request for us,
and then you have business logic layers
which actually could encompass many layers within,
like service class, facade classes,
data access object classes, et cetera.
Now when you have an incoming request
entering your application,
it is stopped by the controller,
and that is the point when your servlet container
is going to clear the thread for it.
This thread is solely dedicated to that request processing
that is going to happen.
As the flow continues, the business logic layers
may call a database, or a REST API,
or any other third-party service you wish to invoke
as a part of your application logic.
Now please understand that these calls
to the external services are blocking calls,
which means Thread 1 is going to be stuck up
till the execution of these calls get completed.
Once done, then the response
can be written back to the client
and only then is Thread 1 freed
to serve any other incoming requests for your application.
So this process is the same for any number
of subsequent requests that come in your application.
The threads are stuck up
till these heavy-duty calls get completed.
Now this is not a very acceptable thing to do.
If your web application has been designed in a way
that you have a huge amount of traffic on a daily basis,
you cannot let these threads stuck up
for these heavy-duty calls.
It's not feasible to do that.
For example, if you have a look
at the target servlet container,
the thread pool capacity is around 200 threads,
which means 200 concurrent requests
can happen, can get executed.
However, if the traffic is too high,
then it will be too bad to keep those threads stuck up
because they will not be able to serve
any other incoming request to your application.
This is the problem that Spring MVC asynchronous processing
is trying to solve for us.
We'll look at it in the next video.